[Music]
meditations
one of my grandfather varys
i have learned to be gentle and meek
and to refrain from all anger and
passion
from the fame and memory of him
that begot me i have learned both
shame-fastness and man-like behavior
of my mother i have learned to be
religious
and bountiful and to be forbear
not only to do but to intend
any evil to continent myself
with a spare diet and to fly
all such excess as is
incidental to great wealth
[Music]
of my great grandfather both to frequent
public schools
and authorities and to get me good
and able teachers at home and that i
ought not to think much if upon such
occasions
i were at excessive charges
[Music]
two him that brought me up
not to be fondly addicted to either of
the two great factions
of the courses in the circus called
priscini nor in the amphitheater
partially to favor any of the gladiators
or fencers as either the permularity
or the secufots moreover
to endure labor nor to need many things
when i have anything to do to do it
myself
rather than by others not to meddle with
many businesses
and not easily to admit of any slander
3. of diagnotists
[Music]
not to busy myself about vain things
and not easily to believe those things
which are commonly spoken by such as
take upon them
to work wonders and by sorcerers
or prestigitators and imposters
concerning the power of charms and their
driving out
of demons or evil spirits and the like
not to keep quails for the game nor to
be mad
after such things not to be offended
with
other men's liberty of speech and to
apply myself
unto philosophy
him also i must thank that ever
i heard first beckias then
tendaisis and marchianus
and that i did write dialogue in my
youth
and that i took liking to the
philosopher's
little couch and skins and such other
things
which by the grecian discipline are
proper to those who profess
philosophy four to rusticus
i am beholding that i first entered into
the conceit that my life wanted some
redress
and cure and then that i did not fall
into the ambition of ordinary sophists
either to write tracts concerning the
common theorems
or to exhort men onto virtue
and the study of philosophy by public
orations
as also that i never by the way
of ostentation did effect to show myself
an active able man
moreover
i learned of him to write letters
without any affection
or curiosity such as that was which by
him was written to my mother from
siness to be easy and ready to be
reconciled
and well pleased again with them that
had offended me
as soon as any of them would be content
to seek unto me again
to read with diligence not to rest
satisfied with a light
and superficial knowledge nor quickly to
ascent to things commonly spoken of whom
also i must thank that ever i light it
upon epictetus
his hypnomata or moral commentaries and
common factions
which also he gave me of his own
[Music]
you